index.md, before:

---
title: Welcome to Math Camp!
layout: default
---

## Welcome to Math Camp!

Offered at the University of Washington each September since 2014, the [Center for Statistics and the Social Sciences (CSSS)](https://csss.uw.edu/){:target="_blank"} has provided [this math camp](https://csss.uw.edu/academics/math-camp){:target="_blank"} as a one-week review of mathematics and probability.

  **Instructor:** Jess Kunke, PhD Student in Statistics
  
  **TA:** Erin Lipman, PhD Student in Statistics

**Intended audience:**

Math camp is open to any entering or current UW graduate students and is particularly suitable for
* Social science graduate students interested in pursuing a quantitatively-oriented research career
* Social science graduate students in the early years of study in departments with CSSS tracks
* Graduate students preparing for advanced CSSS statistics courses

**Objectives:**

* Prepare students for CSSS and other advanced courses in statistical methodology
* Focus on conceptual foundation, basic tools, and confidence building
* Provide some introduction to programming/statistics in R

This workshop **does not** assume prior exposure to this material; math skills through high school
algebra are helpful but can be reviewed. Part of the purpose of this workshop is that students may use lecture notes and web materials to refresh their memories of key concepts and tools as they continue in research and coursework.

## Schedule

Math camp will be offered in a hybrid form this year; participants may participate in person or via Zoom. Our **tentative** workshop schedule is as follows:

  **9am-12pm, [SAV 260](https://www.washington.edu/maps/#!/sav):**  Review math concepts, do practice problems
  
  **1-3pm, [CSSCR Big Lab (SAV 117)](https://www.washington.edu/maps/#!/sav):** Introduction to programming and statistics in R
  
  **3-4pm, [CSSCR Big Lab (SAV 117)](https://www.washington.edu/maps/#!/sav):** Office hour if needed
  
Slides and materials will be linked to in the schedule below as they are made available. Much of the course material provided here was first created by Laina Mercer with developments by [Jessica Godwin](https://jlgodwin.github.io/MathCamp){:target="_blank"} and [Peter Gao](https://peteragao.github.io/CSSS-Math-Camp-2021/). Jess Kunke has contributed to developing the labs since 2021.

### Monday, September 12

**Concepts**

- Algebra
- Linear equations and systems of equations
- Functions and limits

[Day 1 slides](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Lecture/Lecture1.pdf) (click link to download)

**Lab**

- Intro to R Studio interface
- Using R as calculator
- Assigning values to variables

[Day 1 lab guide](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Labs/Rlab1.html.zip) (click link to download zip)


### Tuesday, September 13

**Concepts**

- Matrices

[Day 2 slides](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Lecture/Lecture2_Matrices.pdf) (click link to download)

**Lab**

- Reading in data
- Intro to data manipulation
- Working with matrices

[Day 2 lab guide](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Labs/RLab2-2022.html.zip) (click link to download zip)
[Day 2 lab R script](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Labs/RLab2-2022.R) (click link to download)

### Wednesday, September 14

**Concepts**

- Derivatives
- Optimization (finding minima/maxima)
- Intro to probability (sets, basic rules, conditional probability)

[Day 3 slides](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Lecture/Lecture3_slides.zip) (click link to download zip)

**Lab**

- Data manipulation with tidyverse
- More plotting in R!
- R Markdown

[Day 3 lab materials](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Labs/RLab3_materials.zip) (click link to download zip)

### Thursday, September 15

**Concepts**

- Random variables (bernoulli, binomial, uniform, normal; expectation, variance)
- Probability distributions (pmfs/pdfs)

**Lab**

- Generating random numbers, sampling from distributions
- Evaluating probability distributions
- Least squares and linear regression in R
 
 
### Friday, September 16

**Concepts**

- Integrals
- Flex time to go over anything that was confusing/could use more practice

**Lab**

- Numerical approximation to integrals
- Monte Carlo integration

Commit message:

Updated Day 4 schedule and materials

index.md, after:

---
title: Welcome to Math Camp!
layout: default
---

## Welcome to Math Camp!

Offered at the University of Washington each September since 2014, the [Center for Statistics and the Social Sciences (CSSS)](https://csss.uw.edu/){:target="_blank"} has provided [this math camp](https://csss.uw.edu/academics/math-camp){:target="_blank"} as a one-week review of mathematics and probability.

  **Instructor:** Jess Kunke, PhD Student in Statistics
  
  **TA:** Erin Lipman, PhD Student in Statistics

**Intended audience:**

Math camp is open to any entering or current UW graduate students and is particularly suitable for
* Social science graduate students interested in pursuing a quantitatively-oriented research career
* Social science graduate students in the early years of study in departments with CSSS tracks
* Graduate students preparing for advanced CSSS statistics courses

**Objectives:**

* Prepare students for CSSS and other advanced courses in statistical methodology
* Focus on conceptual foundation, basic tools, and confidence building
* Provide some introduction to programming/statistics in R

This workshop **does not** assume prior exposure to this material; math skills through high school
algebra are helpful but can be reviewed. Part of the purpose of this workshop is that students may use lecture notes and web materials to refresh their memories of key concepts and tools as they continue in research and coursework.

## Schedule

Math camp will be offered in a hybrid form this year; participants may participate in person or via Zoom. Our **tentative** workshop schedule is as follows:

  **9am-12pm, [SAV 260](https://www.washington.edu/maps/#!/sav):**  Review math concepts, do practice problems
  
  **1-3pm, [CSSCR Big Lab (SAV 117)](https://www.washington.edu/maps/#!/sav):** Introduction to programming and statistics in R
  
  **3-4pm, [CSSCR Big Lab (SAV 117)](https://www.washington.edu/maps/#!/sav):** Office hour if needed
  
Slides and materials will be linked to in the schedule below as they are made available. Much of the course material provided here was first created by Laina Mercer with developments by [Jessica Godwin](https://jlgodwin.github.io/MathCamp){:target="_blank"} and [Peter Gao](https://peteragao.github.io/CSSS-Math-Camp-2021/). Jess Kunke has contributed to developing the labs since 2021.

### Monday, September 12

**Concepts**

- Algebra
- Linear equations and systems of equations
- Functions and limits

[Day 1 slides](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Lecture/Lecture1.pdf) (click link to download)

**Lab**

- Intro to R Studio interface
- Using R as calculator
- Assigning values to variables

[Day 1 lab guide](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Labs/Rlab1.html.zip) (click link to download zip)


### Tuesday, September 13

**Concepts**

- Matrices

[Day 2 slides](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Lecture/Lecture2_Matrices.pdf) (click link to download)

**Lab**

- Reading in data
- Intro to data manipulation
- Working with matrices

[Day 2 lab guide](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Labs/RLab2-2022.html.zip) (click link to download zip)
[Day 2 lab R script](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Labs/RLab2-2022.R) (click link to download)

### Wednesday, September 14

**Concepts**

- Derivatives
- Optimization (finding minima/maxima)

[Day 3 slides](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Lecture/Lecture3_Part1_Derivatives.pdf) (click link to download)

**Lab**

- Data manipulation with tidyverse
- More plotting in R!
- R Markdown

[Day 3 lab materials](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Labs/RLab3_materials.zip) (click link to download zip)

### Thursday, September 15

**Concepts**

- Intro to probability (sets, basic rules, conditional probability)
- Random variables (bernoulli, binomial, uniform, normal; expectation, variance)
- Probability distributions (pmfs/pdfs)

[Day 4 slides](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Lecture/Lecture4_IntroToProbability.pdf) (click link to download)

[Paper on relative risk vs odds ratio](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Lecture/relative-risk-odds-ratio-paper.pdf) (click link to download)

**Lab**

- Practice with data and tidyverse!

[Day 4 lab materials](https://github.com/jpierkunke/CSSS-Math-Camp-2022/raw/main/Labs/RLab4_materials.zip) (click link to download zip)

### Friday, September 16

**Concepts**

- Integrals
- Flex time to go over anything that was confusing/could use more practice

**Lab**

- Numerical approximation to integrals
- Monte Carlo integration
